---
name: "Simon Hettrick"
profile_image: ""
homepage: "https://www.software.ac.uk/about/staff/person/simon-hettrick"
position: "Professor and Deputy Director, Software Sustainability Institute"
affiliation: "University of Southampton"
project_role: ""
---

Professor Simon Hettrick works with stakeholders from across the research
community to develop policies that support research software, the people who
develop that software and the researchers who rely on it. Simon is a passionate
advocate for Research Software Engineers. He orchestrated a campaign to gain
recognition for this community, which has grown from a handful of people in
2013 to a substantial international community numbering in the thousands. He
was the founding chair of the UK's Association of Research Software Engineers
and is now a Trustee of the Society of Research Software Engineering and its
Treasurer. He has been treasurer of the RSE conference since it began in 2016.

Simon is one of the Directors of the Southampton Research Software Group based
at the University of Southampton. The group makes research software engineering
expertise available to researchers across the University, provides training in
software engineering and encourages collaboration and the sharing of knowledge
between researchers who rely on software.

He is a member of the UKRI expert group on e-Infrastructure, a member of the
STFC Projects Peer Review Panel (large projects), and an Advisory Board member
for the journal Patterns. He has a background in physics and patent law.
